Ubuntu:
<======>
- Installation: (Nagyvonalakban hogy megis mi a faszrol van szo meg ilyenek)

Installing Ubuntu 20.10 has to be the easiest Linux OS 
installation on a Raspberry Pi I’ve seen so  far, and that’s 
because of distro’s availability on the Raspberry Pi Imager, 
Raspberry Pi > > > Foundation’s open source imaging utility 
for writing Linux-powered distributions and other related software 
on the microSD card of your Raspberry Pi.

- The desktop: (Szinten csak behanyt szoveg, kesobbi informacio kollektalas elosegitesere)

If you are familiar with the Ubuntu desktop on 
your desktop or laptop computer, let me tell you
that nothing will change when you run Ubuntu on
a Raspberry Pi board. In fact, if you mostly 
do home office work (write documents, surf the Web,
watch videos, etc.), you can even replace your 
desktop PC with a Raspberry Pi, which will save you a lot of money on energy bills.

You’ll get the same apps, the same GNOME-based 
Ubuntu desktop experience, and even a bit extra as 
Ubuntu 20.10 for Raspberry Pi comes with a unique 
selection of default wallpapers you won’t find 
anywhere else (OK, you can download them from here).

- Capabilities: (-||-)

Wi-Fi 2.4GHz and 5GHz networks work, 
Bluetooth works and I was able to 
connect my TaoTronics wireless earbuds with 
a single mouse click, Full HD (1080p) YouTube 
videos work in both Mozilla Firefox (default) 
and Chromium web browsers (installed as a snap), and 
Full HD (1080p) video playback works flawlessly too.

- Things that doesn't work: (-||-)

Of course, 4K YouTube or local video 
playback doesn’t work, but that could 
be considered a hardware limitation. 
On YouTube, you can see the Quad HD (1440p) 
and 4K (2160p) quality options on both Firefox and 
Chromium, but playback is very slow on 1440p and non-existent 
on 2160p. Local 4K videos won’t even play in VLC or MPV (both installed from the archives).

- Conclusion:

Running Ubuntu 20.10 on the Raspberry Pi 4 
was the best ‘Linux on Raspberry Pi’ experience 
I’ve had so far. However, there are a couple of 
tiny things that need to be improved in future 
releases. For example, if you change the default 
wallpaper to anything else, you won’t be able to get it back.

Also, the About page in System Settings doesn’t show CPU 
and disk capacity info, and the GNOME version isn’t in 
sync with what’s installed on the system. But other than 
that, congrats to Canonical and the Ubuntu Desktop team 
for an awesome Ubuntu Desktop on Raspberry Pi release!

Source: https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-20-10-on-the-raspberry-pi-4-rocks-a-review